
* What exactly is the "hardcoded_path" option?

It's for the extremely paranoid, and must be used with caution. When set,
everything outsdie of that path will be denied execution when execve(), mmap(),
or mprotect() is called on the given file, regardless of the file/directory
ownership or permissions, though those are still enforced. When combined with
the "paranoid" option, even root and the admin/trusted gids are restricted to
this path.

Run the script "scripts/generate_hardcoded_path.sh" to get a starting point for
setting this option. It walks down your path and determines all the directories
in which shared libraries are used.

This path may contain up to 1024 characters. If you need a higher limit,
increase the value of TPE_HARDCODED_PATH_LEN in module.h and recompile. Also,
no single directory can be more than 256 characters in length (MAX_FILE_LEN).

* Is this module compatible with my LSM? (SELinux, AppArmor, etc)

Yes, it is.

* How exactly does this module work?

I basically use a method that kernel rootkits use to insert itself into the
kernel by writing code directly to live memory, also known as "hot-patching".
The difference is, I'm not trying to hide anything, I'm trying to further
secure the system. Due to this "hot-patching" of the kernel, it is very
important that you use a kernel in the "Supported Kernels" list from the README
file.

This method is also similar to how Ksplice works, though is not quite as
advanced. Ksplice is a tool used to apply security fixes to your kernel
without having to reboot your system. Shame on Oracle Corporation for buying
them out and keeping that code closed-source.

* What are other security things I should do?

You're no doubt using this module to enhance the security of your system. I
highly recommend that you enable all of the sysctl options under "extras"
(see the "Featuress" and "Configuration" sections in the README). These are
features ported from the grsecurity project. Also, you should have this kernel
module loaded at some point during the boot process.

Modern kernels have some security settings that are off by default; here are
a few you can enable:

    $ echo 1 > /proc/sys/kernel/modules_disabled
    $ echo 1 > /proc/sys/kernel/dmesg_restrict

If you set the values in /etc/sysctl.conf, they will persist past system boot.

* Can more features from the grsecurity project be coded into this module?

Some of them can, yes, and I'll implement them as I get the time. Most of them
however, especially the PaX features, can't be implemented with this module.
In a nutshell, I'm using a fairly basis method to hook into kernel code, and it
is limited in what it can do.

More grsecurity features could be implemented to your distribution kernel with
the ksplice software, as it's by far more advanced code. I'll reiterate; Shame
on Oracle Corporation for buying them out and keeping that code closed-source.

* Can I use just the extra features and not TPE itself?

Yes. To do this, enable the "softmode" and disable the "log" sysctl entries.
The trusted path execution feature will be effectivly disabled, and the other
features will still function normally.

* Why did I get a compilation failure when building this module?

Due to the continueing nature of changing interfaces between kernel versions,
this code my not compile correctly, or even crash your system, if done on a
linux system not stated as supported. Use this module on non-tested kernels at
your own risk.

In general, though, the only issue I've seen so far when porting this module to
different kernel versions is data structure changes, which is solved by an easy
"#if LINUX_VERSION_CODE" statement. But future kernels may have big enough
changes to the point where the hijacking method I'm using no longer works, so
keep that in mind.

* Why isn't this using the Linux Security Module (LSM) Framework?

There are two main reasons:

  1) Because LSM no longer exports its symbols

This means that people have to recompile their kernel if they want additional
security modules not supported by their distribution.

Technically, this module actually does use LSM hooks, it just has to use a
rootkit-like method to hook into (hijack) them. But it also does things outside
of the scope of LSM, so to use LSM would mean to lose features.

  2) Because you can't "chain" LSM, meaning only one can be loaded at a time

Since you can't have more than one LSM loaded at a time, no distribution is
going to replace their preferred LSM with TPE. It's just not going to happen.

* Will TPE be put into the mainline kernel?

It wouldn't be very hard to port this module into the mainline kernel. However,
as far as I am aware, any security feature going into the mainline kernel is
being told to use the LSM framework. Based on my previous comments on LSM, I'm
unsure how to approach the linux kernel guys about this. They're intimidating
as hell, and rightfully so.

If you REALLY want these features in the mainline kernel, you're welcome to
give it a go. I'd love to see this go in, I simply lack the patience required
to do so.

* Why the "Use at your own risk!" warning?

Although stable on tested systems, this code is "dangerous". It hijacks the
some system calls, inserting code to do the TPE checks on anything that is
executed, and it's possible that this module could destabilize your kernel.
When used on the below list of supported sysyems, it hasn't that been
problematic for me, but I've never used your system before, so use this module
at your own risk.

Basically, if your system didn't crash immediately after you insmod this
module, you are going to be fine.

* This module is a rootkit. Rootkits are bad.

That's not really a question, but I'll answer it anyway. Yes, due to the way
this module has to be written to work, it is technically a rootkit. No,
rootkits aren't bad. That's like calling nmap bad. It's not the tool that's
bad, it's how it's used.

* But you've made writing a rootkit a lot easier for others.

Not having this code isn't stopping anyone from writing a rootkit. There are
plenty of other resources on the Internet that host the source code of all
kinds of rootkits. The method I'm using here is just one of those methods;
quite arguably the easiest to write, and easiest to defeat. Just "echo 1 >
/proc/sys/kernel/modules_disabled" and this can't go in.

* But rootkit detail this, rootkit detail that.

Enough already :)

* Why did you code this module in this way?

There are lots of reasons. Perhaps the most applicable to you is the fact that
a lot of organizations have policies that prevent their IT staff from deviating
or overriding the distribution packages. This is particularly true if you use a
hardware or software vendor that mandates exactly what kernel versions you may
use if you want to make use of their support.

Since the Linux kernel offers no official support for security add-ons such as
this that just "go in" (see above LSM comments), I had to go a little bit rogue
with how I wrote the code.

Bottom line is, if you can't change your kernel for whatever reason, you're SOL
when it comes to some of the great security features offered by other kernels.
So I wrote this module the way I did so you all could still use the default
distribution kernel, AND have hardened kernel features. Everyone gets their
cake and can eat it, too.

